---
date: '2022-08-14 12:43 +0100'
published: false
title: '798/1924, Shilling, Dropping, Bots and Bears: The Language of the NFT Space '
---
As of a couple of days ago [fifty percent of _Me_ is live (for sale) on Opensea](https://opensea.io/collection/1924piecesofme "1924 Pieces of Me collection on Opensea"), thats is to say that pieces 1/1924 to 962/1924 have been "minted" and listed for sale. They should appear in order but, to be honest, I am only human so their are a few errors in the number order. The human touch is important throughout this project both in terms of content, practice, praxis and process. 

I considered programming my own _"smart contract"_ to manage the the process, but this carried an upfront cost in _"gas fees"_ which I could not afford. Also, it seemed important to do the labour of creation and implementation myself. This may seem an unusual choice when working in the Web 3.0 enabled space of Non-fungible Token (NFT) based art where a huge number of "sucessful" projects are iterative in nature and/or constructed by algorythms. Indeed, given that the process presses certain of my neurodiversity and disability buttons, I was possibly more prone to mistakes and definitly more likely to be slower than the average bear (to paraphrase Yogi Bear for no particular reason). "You know you could download a free bot to do that?" piped up my son (19), as I sat cursing quietly to myself after making a mistake that required hours of unpicking. I haven't googled to see if he is correct, although I am reasonably sure I could subcontract it out to another human, if not to an bot or some other form of automatation. 

The majority of "marketing" for NFTs seems to take place in the Web 2.0 space (e.g. what's now considered to be _traditional_ social media) with, as far as I can tell, twitter being the platform of choice for creators and collectors to interact. "Who's going to want to buy pictures of your brain anyway?" says my son (13). That's not a bad question? I wonder who will? I suppose I am hoping that I can create interest in the philosophical issues I am trying to raise with the project that _"collectors"_ will buy in to that narrative. However, I wonder if the space is ready for questions and debates about _identity, ownership, disability, mental health and vulnerability_? I remember, not for the first time, that I was warned by those operating outside the NFT and blockchain space that they felt like it would not be a safe place for this kind of project. I continue to hope that I can disprove that.

I have spent the weekend actively engaging with the twitter-based world of NFT collecters and creators (so much so that I have had to resist the urge to insert a series of hashtags here and there as I write). It is a strange place full of bots and automated messages (which seems hardly suprising given the nature of the beast. I have been _"shilling"_ and _"dropping"_ my artwork as best I can, the calls for it are endless. But no one has bitten yet, perhaps my artwork is not aesthetically pleasing or my price too high. Who knows, it remains early days for the project.

My son (19), apparently the fountain of all knowledge, tells me that I should have "created hype" before releasing the images for sale. However, it seemed to me that the images needed to be in exististance before I could have the discussions I wanted to have, and indeed now they do "exist" as NFTs they have taken on a strange tangible quality that is some how different to the original images from which they are created. That is, of course, ridiculous to say as they are intangible and ephemeral by their very nature. However, they seem to be somehow more concrete once listed for sale than they are were when I curated and aranged them in to the silent video, for example.